# Tools

[Binary-Ninja and IDA are a completely different class of tool from Radare. Don't... | Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=19322327)
> Binary-Ninja and IDA are a completely different class of tool from Radare. Don't get me wrong, I'm happy Radare exists. And I occasionally check it out and play with it -- I think "the vim of RE tools" is a cool point in the design space. As a Linux person, I find that attractive, especially for certain kinds of automated stuff (vs loading Python scripts in through a UX or whatever). But that kind of aesthetic is an extremely small part of these tools in the whole, and it simply does not matter if the tool cannot "keep up" with your work. All of that comes *later on*. You're comparing a Jalopy to a Prius -- and that Prius is already going up against a Ferrari.
> 
> When I use IDA, almost all of my actual work in the tool itself is very "boring" RE stuff, because it does its job. I am not constantly fighting with it to get basic things analyzed propertly, or fighting a lack of supported features that prevent it from opening something, or a bad analysis engine that misses 80% of things I later reverse by hand. You could comparatively stitch something together with the tools in Radare to patch over this for the cases it doesn't handle. You might even call those "edge cases", but reverse engineering is 90% edge cases and 10% easy stuff. I'll already be done by then.
> 
> I should also be clear that part of the issue is that reverse engineering is a money game, one where money is easy to come by if you have the clients -- and as a result and a lot of the developers of those tools have more money/labor available than the Radare developers. That also means people who need this can simply *throw money* at a problem, like an expensive IDA license, and move on. That doesn't mean Radare developers are incompetent. If you gave them a lot of money -- like, enough to fund 5-10 core developers for a couple years -- Radare would dramatically improve extremely quickly, I'm sure. (This is one of the reasons why I suspected a *true* competitor to IDA would never come around as FOSS -- it takes a shitload of money to do that, and it's also something you can make a shitload of money *from*.)
> 
> But I'll say this: if you put me into a situation where I had to reverse something, I'd pay for an IDA license 10/10 times even if every Radare developer was at my command, and I'd probably still get it done faster (most RE tools I know of lack even the most basic, fundamental features IDA has had for *years* \-- such as FLIRT -- that can dramatically improve reversing speed.)